you've probably wondered where they get
names for hurricanes well actually
hurricanes aren't named it's the
tropical storms that are named and then
if it turns into a hurricane and keeps
the name of the tropical storm they used
to be named by a system allotted to the
longitude but this was confusing and
hard to remember
in 1953 the National Weather Service
started using names women to name
tropical storms and in 1979 they started
alternating with names for men there are
six lists of names and use for storms in
the Atlantic the lists rotate once every
year and a list will not be reused for
another six years each name on the list
starts with a different letter the first
hurricane of the season serves as an A
and B and so on the letters Q u XY and z
are not used if a storm causes a large
amount of damage or takes many lives
that will retire the name from the list
and another name will replace it after
the next six year naming cycle for
example there will not be another
Hurricane Katrina the name to replace it
will be Katia if for some reason there
was a year with a lot of hurricanes and
the list of names used up the National
Hurricane Center will simply turn to the
Greek alphabet you would then have
hurricane alpha-beta etc they should
probably start using more menacing
sounding names like Samuel Jackson or
murdered on 6,000 I mean if I heard that
hurricane mr. T was coming I'd get out
of town in a hurry
[Music]